Everyone this is a very short lesson quite simple.
And the goal here is to teach for those who still don't know how to stand the sight read it on the local
server.
Your remote server of your choice.
I when to leave aside the issue of which is the best hosting company for Wordpress even because currently
I am not affiliated with any of these companies by the way if you want to know my own opinion.
The best type of hosting currently are the so-called virtual private servers or the.
However I'm not going to give you many details of how this type of server works.
Even though this is something I'm still learning.
Currently there are a lot of people running away from shared servers and migrating their Web sites to
some sort of peace.
But for this lesson I'm going to use a shared hosting service that I have purchased in any hosting company
here I have access to a subpanel which greatly helps the installation of wordpress.
One important detail I'm going to teach you how to migrate Web sites using a plugin called W.P. clone.
There is a way to migrate the whole site manually as well but lately I've been preferring to use plugins
to do this.
It is much faster and so I always spare a few minutes more of my day.
Every time I need to perform this type of task this plugin works great if your website is not ubique
it will be perfect for Migration this website we created you in discourse on top of that.
Lately I've been using this plugin as a backup solution for my sites as well.
So let's get started.
To start off we need to access the hosting company control panel and we're going to create a database
to install WordPress set over two databases.
We click on My sequel databases what we all need in order to install WordPress we need a user with the
respective passwords and a database.
First of all let's create an empty database by clicking here where it says create new database
click here in create database write down the name of your database or copy its name to any notepad application.
The fact is that we need to know the name of this database during the Wordpress installation so keep
it saved somehow.
Now you create the database user and scroll down a little.
It says My sequel users add new user I'm going to type a name to this user and I want to generate a
password here.
Click on create user and I'm going to also save this username and password somewhere
right now with this true information.
I have to add the created user to the database.
A lot of people forget to do this and in the end they don't understand why the Wordpress installation
doesn't work.
The fact is that the created user needs to have all the privileges of creating change in tables and
other privileges within the database.
Otherwise this user will not be able to do anything inside the database which include installing WordPress.
Let's go to where it says add user to database choose our user and our database and click on Add in
the next screen.
We check all privileges make changes and that's it.
The whole process is finished.
You already have a user database configured.
Now we can go ahead and send the Wordpress installation file to the server if you know how to use in
FTB client.
Go ahead and submit the Wordpress installation file via aftah be.
But for this tutorial and going to use the C panel's file manager.
Let's go back to the C Bangladesh word.
Head over to your file manager.
I'm going to choose to open the public mail directory and here is the folder where you'll be saving
all of the files from the Wordpress installation.
If this is the first time you access this folder you'll probably see some files like this one here and
you can safely remove these files.
So I'm going to select these files and click this button here.
OK now I'm going to send the word installation file to the server.
You can download this file directly from the Wordpress dot org page.
OK I have already downloaded so I just click here to upload it and in this new screen I'm going to click
on select file I'm going to choose my compressed file and wait for the upload to finish.
OK I can go back here to my father.
I'm going to select this file and click on extract.
OK ready.
Now I can delete this installer
and wordpress installation files are inside his folder called WordPress.
But I don't recommend you to start off the installation through this foliar.
So what I'm going to do when I enter this folder choose all the files click and drag to the public HVM
mail directory.
So the installation of Wordpress will have at its starting point the root directory of the server not
this WordPress folder here.
It is much better this way.
Trust me.
And also I can remove this folder which at the moment is empty
now we have everything ready to make a brand new installation of Wordpress on remote server.
Later on this lesson you'll understand why you're installing WordPress from scratch OK.
Now we can access the Web site address and if everything is ok you'll see the Wordpress installation
page you already know.
This whole process here from the first lesson of the course so I'm going to speed up the recovery a
bit.
We have a new installation of Wordpress and what we're going to do with it.
Let's install a new plug in here called W.P. clone.
So the whole thing will work as follows.
We are going to install this plugin in both WordPress instance we just created and the one we have on
the local server in the local installation will be creating a file and that file will be used to restore
the full size back up on the remote server well.
Let's show you how this will happen in practice.
Let's install the plugin here on the remote server
and this is all for now.
We don't need to do any configuration right away in this plugin.
Let's leave this window for a moment and let's open our local installation of Wordpress
nounless did the same thing they did on the remote server that's installed the WP klong plugging here
to
well now we have the plug installed in both locations on the local installation.
Then you had over to the main page of the plugin clicking here on the BPP clomb.
This is the plug in configuration screen.
But as I told you it works great even without that in any specific settings.
But if you want to know what settings are available you can go ahead and click here in advanced settings.
For now what we're going to do here is to click on this large blue button and create a backup of the
local installation of wordpress.
When we do this the plug in will create a backup file which you can restore later on the remote server.
Let's click here them and wait a while until the process finishes.
OK.
Once the backup is complete you have the screen.
Here we have this link which we could use to restore the backup.
But this link works best when the need to transfer a site that is already online to a local server or
to a new remote server.
But in our case this link will be useless.
However there is a shortcut.
We're going to send this file which is inside the W.P. content folder uploads W.P. clone directly to
the same folder on our remote server to do this.
Let's go back to the see panel file manager and what you see here at the moment is my remote server.
Ok let's head over to W.P. content uploads be a clone let's upload the file that is on the local server
in the same folder on our computer.
I mean all the hard drives
and now we have the same file.
Also on my remote server.
Now let's head over to the mainstream of the clone
Remember I'm still on my remote server.
OK.
And here as you can see we got the file we've just uploaded to the remote server.
If you can see this file here in the list you see this button here that says scan and repopulate the
backup list.
Just click on it and you have this list updated.
You're going to do next.
Let's play this button here and down here another button we appear saying restore backup.
But before clicking this button we have to read this one carefully.
It asks you if you're really sure what's you want to do because the database would be totally overwritten
with the backup information coming from your local server.
Since what we have here is just a name the installation of wordpress.
There is no problem.
Let's then proceed without worrying too much Jack here and click the orange button.
Now we wait for a while
and it's ready on some occasions.
You're likely to see some errors popping up here.
Generally these servers are generated as a result of some limitations of your server or some misconfiguration
on your server itself.
If this is your case you can try contacting your hosting company or try to perform the manual migration
of wordpress.
You can check the extra materials of this lecture.
You see a link with a very good article about how to manually migrate a WordPress website.
But I hope you don't need to read it right.
The link is here on the left side.
Click the blue button and you can have access to it right.
Now just to finish the process the plugin asks you to save the Wordpress permanence again.
Go ahead and click on this link
and here there is no secret.
Just click here and resave this data.
Now we can browse our site and it should be exactly the same as installation they have on the local
server.
Ok nice.
I hope you also managed to migrate your website without any major problems.
That's excellent and I also want to congratulate you for coming so far and I really hope I have contributed
to your knowledge of this interesting too.
So versatile that is WordPress.
Throughout this more than 50 lessons I have been with you teaching a little bit of what I have learned
in recent years.
I tried to make it easier for you to learn something that was very difficult for me to learn at the
beginning and I hope I have achieved that goal.
As you think I've been unable to contribute anything to your career or simply that of course was worth
it.
Please don't forget to leave your review here at Eudemus this you have other students who are interested
in this course to know that is really worth it.
So I remain at your disposal here at either me answering your questions or doubts and I'm also available
on social media.
A big hug to everyone and I'll see you in another opportunity.
Bye.
Take care and peace.